Iterables Codelab (#2121)
dart-lang/site-www: src/codelabs/iterables.md

which gets the first element.

Also, with the `Iterable` class, you can't use the operator `[]` to access the last element, but you can use the
`last` property. 

{{site.alert.warn}}
  Because accessing the last element of an Iterable requires stepping through all the other elements,
  **`last` can be slow.**
  Using `first` or `last` on an **empty `Iterable`**
  results in a [StateError.][StateError class]
{{site.alert.end}}

[//]: https://gist.github.com/f3d96039195566d934a966390ea4ad62
<iframe
  src="{{site.dartpad-embed}}?id=f3d96039195566d934a966390ea4ad62"
  style="border: 1px solid lightgrey; margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 25px"
  frameborder="no"
  height="300"
  width="100%" >
</iframe>

In this example, you saw how to use `first` and `last` to get the first
and last elements of an `Iterable`. It's also possible to
find the first element that matches a condition. The next section
shows how to do that using a method called `firstWhere()`.

### Example: Using firstWhere()

You already saw that you can access the elements of an `Iterable` sequentially,
and you can easily get the first or last element.

> Now, you learn how to use `firstWhere()` to find an element that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you learn how to use `firstWhere()` to find the first element that
```

Reviewer 2: I'll do this.

> satisfies certain conditions. This method requires you to pass a _predicate_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you learn how to use `firstWhere()` to find the first element in the 
`Iterable` that satisfies certain conditions. This method requires you to pass a _predicate_,
```

Consider adding a subsequent element in `items` that satisfies the condition (to demonstrate that `firstWhere()` won't return this element)

You don't need to implement `main()`.

This exercise introduces `singleWhere()`. This method works similarly to `firstWhere()`, but
in this case, it expects only one element of the `Iterable` to match the predicate.
If more than one or no element in the `Iterable` satisfies the predicate condition, then the
method throws a [StateError][StateError class] exception.

{{site.alert.warn}}
  `singleWhere()` steps through the whole `Iterable` until the last element, which can cause
  problems if the `Iterable` is infinite or contains a large collection of elements.
{{site.alert.end}}

Your goal is to implement the predicate for `singleWhere()` that satisfies the following conditions:

* The element contains the character `'a'`.
* The element starts with the character `'M'`.

All the elements in the test data are [strings;][String class]
you can check the class documentation for help.

[//]: https://gist.github.com/241c6bc591f9436a9be0116724222953
<iframe
  src="{{site.dartpad-embed}}?id=241c6bc591f9436a9be0116724222953&theme=dark"
  frameborder="no"
  height="250"
  width="100%">
</iframe>

## Checking conditions

> When working with `Iterable`, sometimes you need to verify that the elements of a collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with `Iterable`, sometimes you need to verify that all of the elements of a collection
```

> satisfy some condition.

Reviewer: This was a confusing sentence to read after having just finished an exercise about verifying that an element satisfies a condition (and the prior section about finding the first element that satisfies a condition).

I'd recommend rewording this to acknowledge that, while we have reviewed some use cases for predicates, there are new ones to cover.

### Example: Using any() and every()

The `Iterable` class provides two methods that you can use to verify conditions:

* `any()`: Returns true if at least one element satisfies the condition.
* `every()`: Returns true if all elements satisfy the condition.

Run this exercise to see them in action.

[//]: https://gist.github.com/d56963729339cea951e16209e0a26e4c
<iframe
  src="{{site.dartpad-embed}}?id=d56963729339cea951e16209e0a26e4c"
  style="border: 1px solid lightgrey; margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 25px"
  frameborder="no"
  height="375"
  width="100%" >
</iframe>

In the example, `any()` verifies that at least one element contains the
character `a`, and `every()` verifies that all elements have a length equal to 
or greater than 5.

After running the code, try changing the predicate of `any()` so it
returns false:

<?code-excerpt "iterables/test/iterables_test.dart (any-false)"?>
{% prettify dart %}
if (items.any((element) => element.contains('Z'))) {
  print('At least one element contains "Z"');
} else {
  print('No element contains "Z"');
}
{% endprettify %}

You can also use `any()` to verify that no element of an `Iterable`
matches a certain condition.

> ### Exercise: Verify that an Iterable satisfies a condition

Reviewer: Nit: I noticed that the solution code for this exercise is missing :
```
class User {
  String name;
  int age;

  User(
    this.name,
    this.age,
  );
}
```

It's probably best if all solution code makes the test pass on its own (i.e. when users copy + paste solution code into the "Dart" editor, they should be able to run the Exercise and see the tests pass)

Reviewer 2: I've fixed the gist.

The following exercise provides practice using the `any()` and `every()` methods, described
in the previous example. In this case, there's a list of users with the class `User`
with the member field `age`.

<?code-excerpt "iterables/lib/user.dart"?>
{% prettify dart %}
class User {
  String name;
  int age;
}
{% endprettify %}

Use `any()` and `every()` to implement two functions:

* Part 1: Implement `anyUserUnder18()`.
  * Return `true` if at least one user is 17 or younger.
* Part 2: Implement `everyUserOver13()`.
  * Return `true` if all users are 14 or older.

<!-- [//]: https://gist.github.com/76dc5c8644652adf4e2032912d974ac3 -->

<iframe
src="{{site.dartpad-embed}}?id=76dc5c8644652adf4e2032912d974ac3&theme=dark"
frameborder="no"
height="325"
width="100%" >
</iframe>

{{site.alert.secondary}}
  **Quick review:**

>   * Although you can use `for-in` loops to check conditions, there are better ways to do that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you can use `for-in` loops to check whether elements satisfy conditions, there are better ways to do that.
```

Reviewer 2: It's not an `Iterables` type (no `s`). I'll think about how to phrase this one.

>   * The method `any()` enables you to check if any element matches a condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method `any()` enables you to check if any element satisfies a condition.
```

>   * The method `every()` enables you to verify if all elements match a condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method `every()` enables you to verify that all elements satisfy a condition.
```

{{site.alert.end}}

## Filtering

> In the previous sections, you saw how using methods like `firstWhere()` or

Reviewer: The previous sections cover  methods like `firstWhere()` or

> `singleWhere()` can help you find an element that matches a certain predicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`singleWhere()` that can help you find an element that matches a certain predicate.
```

> But, what if you want to find all the elements that match a certain condition?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, what if you want to find all the elements that satisfy a certain condition?
```

You can accomplish that using the `where()` method.

<?code-excerpt "iterables/test/iterables_test.dart (where)"?>
{% prettify dart %}
Iterable<int> evenNumbers = numbers.where((number) => number.isEven);
{% endprettify %}

> In this example, `numbers` contains an `Iterable` with multiple `int`, and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, `numbers` contains an `Iterable` with multiple `int` values, and
```

`where()` finds all the numbers that are even.

The output of `where()` is another `Iterable`, and you can use it as such to iterate
over it or apply other `Iterable` methods. In the next example, the output of `where()`
is used directly inside the `for-in` loop.

<?code-excerpt "iterables/test/iterables_test.dart (where-for)"?>

> {% prettify dart %}

Reviewer: Nit: 

Since it's not much to add, should we consider making this example runnable as is? In other words:

```dart
const numbers = [1,2,3,4,5];
Iterable<int> evenNumbers = numbers.where((number) => number.isEven);

main() {
  for (var number in evenNumbers) {
    print('$number is even');
  }
}
```

Iterable<int> evenNumbers = numbers.where((number) => number.isEven);
for (var number in evenNumbers) {
  print('$number is even');
}
{% endprettify %}

### Example: Using where()

Run this example to see how `where()` can be used together with other
methods like `any()`.

[//]: https://gist.github.com/f96f2f630ee327bd69ee7737301d9628
<iframe
  src="{{site.dartpad-embed}}?id=f96f2f630ee327bd69ee7737301d9628"
  style="border: 1px solid lightgrey; margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 25px"
  frameborder="no"
  height="375"
  width="100%" >
</iframe>

In this example, `where()` is used to find all numbers that are even, then
`any()` is used to check if the results contain a negative number.

> Then, in the example, `where()` is used again to find all numbers larger than `1000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Later in the example, `where()` is used again to find all numbers larger than `1000`.
```

Because there are none, the result is an empty `Iterable`.

{{site.alert.note}}

>   If no element matches the predicate in `where()`, the method returns an empty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no element satisfies the predicate in `where()`, the method returns an empty
```

  `Iterable`. Unlike `singleWhere()` or `firstWhere()`, `where()` doesn't throw a
   [StateError][StateError class] exception.
{{site.alert.end}}

### Example: Using takeWhile

The methods `takeWhile()` and `skipWhile()` can also help you filter elements from an
`Iterable`.

Run this example to see how `takeWhile()` and `skipWhile()` can split an `Iterable`
containing numbers.

[//]: https://gist.github.com/5e3582c858517f93baf160892d131ec9
<iframe
  src="{{site.dartpad-embed}}?id=5e3582c858517f93baf160892d131ec9"
  style="border: 1px solid lightgrey; margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 25px"
  frameborder="no"
  height="275"
  width="100%" >
</iframe>

In this example, `takeWhile()` returns an `Iterable` that contains all the elements

> leading to the element that matches the predicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
leading to the element that satisfies the predicate.
```

On the other hand, `skipWhile()` 

> returns an `Iterable` while skipping all the elements before the one that matches the predicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
returns an `Iterable` while skipping all the elements before the one that matches the predicate.
```

> Note that the element that matches the predicate is also included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the element that satisfies the predicate is also included.
```

After running the example, change `takeWhile()` to take elements until it reaches
the first negative number.

<?code-excerpt "iterables/test/iterables_test.dart (takewhile)"?>
{% prettify dart %}

> Iterable<int> numbersUntilNegative =

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var numbersUntilNegative =
```
Just marking that we should be consistent with the example.

However you can create a new `Iterable` by creating a new `List` or a `Set`.
 
This example shows a `List` of `int`, which is also an `Iterable` of `int`:

{% prettify dart %}
    Iterable<int> iterable = [1, 2, 3];
{% endprettify %}

The difference with a `List`, is that with the `Iterable` you can't 
guarantee that reading elements by index will be efficient.
`Iterable`, as opposed as `List`, does not have the `[]` operator.

For example **the following code will give you an error**:

{:.bad}
{% prettify dart %}
    Iterable<int> iterable = [1, 2, 3];
    var value = iterable[![1]!];
{% endprettify %}

If you read elements with `[]`, the compiler will tell you that
the operator `'[]'` isn't defined for the class `Iterable` which
means that you can't use `[index]` in this case.

You can instead read elements with `elementAt()`, which will step through
the elements of the iterable until reaching that position.

{% prettify dart %}
    Iterable<int> iterable = [1, 2, 3];
    var value = iterable.elementAt(1);
{% endprettify %}

Continue to the next section to learn more about how to access elements of an `Iterable`.

## Reading elements

> The elements of an `Iterable` can be read sequentially.

Reviewer 2: There's no need to mention Iterator before the sample. How about just changing these two paragraphs to this:

You can read the elements of an iterable sequentially, using a `for-in` loop.

One way to do that, is by getting an `Iterator` using the `iterator` getter,
and using it to step through the values. However, it is easier to use the 
`for-in loop`, which internally uses an `Iterator` too.

### Example: Using for-in loop

The following example shows how to read elements using  a `for-in loop`.

[//]: https://gist.github.com/597f152c1df414fc4d7d78d1be22ac22
<iframe
  src="{{site.dartpad-embed}}?id=597f152c1df414fc4d7d78d1be22ac22"
  style="border: 1px solid lightgrey; margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 25px"
  frameborder="no"
  height="200"
  width="100%" >
</iframe>

> The `for-in loop`, as opposed to the `Iterator`, makes your code easier

Reviewer 2: @natebosch should we drop the Iterator example? I'm thinking of replacing lines 114 to 132 with this:

{{site.alert.info}}
  Behind the scenes, the `for-in` loop uses an [iterator](...link to iterator property).
  You rarely see the [Iterator API][] used directly, however,
  because `for-in` is easier to read and understand,
  and less prone to errors.
{{site.alert.end}}

Reviewer 3: This wording LGTM.

to read and understand, and it is less prone to errors.

Here's an example with `Iterator`:

{% prettify dart %}
var it = iterable.iterator;	
while (it.moveNext()) {	
  print(it.current);	
}
{% endprettify %}

{{site.alert.info}}
Stepping with the `Iterator` is done
by calling `Iterator.moveNext`, and if the call returns true, the `Iterator` 
has now moved to the next element, which is then available as `Iterator.current`. 

If the call returns `false`, there are no more elements, and `iterator.current` returns `null`.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.secondary}}
**Key terms:**
* **Iterable**: the Dart [Iterable][iterable class] class.

> * **Iterator**: used to read elements from an Iterable.

Reviewer 2: ->

* **Iterator**: An object used by `for-in` to read elements from an `Iterable` object.

* **for-in loop**: an easy way to sequentially read elements from an Iterable.
{{site.alert.end}}

### Example: Using first and last

In some cases, you only want to access the first or the last element of an `Iterable`.

With the `Iterable` class you can't access to the elements directly, so you can't call
to `iterable[0]` to access the first element. Instead, you can use the method `first`
which will return the first element.

As well, you can't use the operator `[]` to access the last element, but you can use the
method `last`. 

{{site.alert.warn}}
  Because accessing the last element of an iterable requires stepping through all the other elements,
  **`last` can be slow.**
{{site.alert.end}}

Accessing to the `first` or `last` element of an empty `Iterable` will throw a 
[StateError][StateError class].

[//]: https://gist.github.com/f3d96039195566d934a966390ea4ad62
<iframe
  src="{{site.dartpad-embed}}?id=f3d96039195566d934a966390ea4ad62"
  style="border: 1px solid lightgrey; margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 25px"
  frameborder="no"
  height="300"
  width="100%" >
</iframe>

In this example you have seen how `first` and `last` can be used to access the first

> and the last elements of an `Iterator`, but would it be possible to use a similar method

Reviewer 2: `Iterator` -> iterable

(or `Iterable` object, or whatever convention we decide on. I'm thinking of following the lead of `Future` and using _`Iterable`_ for the class and _iterable_ for instances of that class. We'd probably want to set up this terminology in a "Key terms" note, like the async-await codelab does.)

Author: I mean Iterable, yes :)

Use `where` to implement two methods:

* Part 1: Implement `filterUnder21`.
  * The code should return an `Iterable` of `User` with the age 21 or more.
* Part 2: Implement `findShortNamed`.

>   * The code should return an `Iterable` of `User` with the names that have a length of 3 or fewer.

Reviewer 2: I'm going to change this to less, since we're talking math here, and they'll need to use a less-than sign.
https://www.electronicproducts.com/Software/System/Why_we_use_a_less_than_sign_and_not_a_fewer_than_sign.aspx

Reviewer 4: OK. Didn’t realize that a less than sign needed to be used.

Reviewer 2: It's a weird math thing. It took me a while to figure out the reason why "fewer" seemed wrong, when it was right in the English sense.
